# gemma--VS--mm4lmm

We here want to analyze yield data of durum wheat mixtures made from the EPO population ([David et al., 2014](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11032-014-0179-z)). We used a marker-by-marker approach and a one-term linear regression model to look for locus at which allelic difference promote overyielding (greater yield in mixture than in monoculture) (see [Wuest and Niklaus, 2018](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-018-0708-y)). The yield data was obtained from a 2017/2018 field experiment in Mauguio (34) composed of monoculture and two-way mixtures plots. Only the mixture data is analyzed here. The phenotypic data was corrected for spatial trend with the SpATS software. The genotypic data come from the BreedWheat array. The SNPs file was cleaned by removing SNPs with more than 5% missing values and SNP for which the least frequent allelic combination was lower than 5 % (in two-way mixtures, there are three possible allelic combinations: "0-0", "0-2", "2-2"). We here analyze a relative mixture performance (RYT) rather than a raw performance.

- The phenotypic file ("pheno.csv") contains RYT for 197 mixtures. Only the first column (RYT on grain yield) is analyzed here
- The genotypic file ("geno.csv") is a 197 x 32740 matrix, with markers encoded as 0 (identical allele in the mixture) or 1 (different allele in the mixture)
- The annotation file ("anno.csv") contains the coordinates of each SNP on the durum wheat genome
- The Kinship file ("Kinship.RData") is a 197 x 197 matrix with pairwise similarity between genotypic pairs. The "kinship" matrix was computed as the distance between pairs, each pair being characterized by the sum of the allelic value of its two components (e.g. genotypic pair I with genotype 1 having allele "0" and genotype 2 having allele "2" will have the value 0+2= "2", whereas genotypic pair J with genotype 1 having allele "2" and genotype 2 having allele "2" will have the value 2+2= "4")

We here restrict the analysis to one phenotype (grain yield RYT) and to one chromosome (5B). We compare the results obtained with two softwares, gemma and MM4LMM. 
